README.md, before:


## About

dcm_qa is a simple DICOM to NIfTI validator script and dataset. The DICOM format is the popular standard for medical images, [but it is very complicated](https://github.com/jonclayden/divest), so most scientific tools only support the simpler [NIfTI](https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/) format. Therefore, scientists rely on accurate conversion of DICOM images to NIfTI. The provided DICOM dataset includes images that exhibit various features such as variation in [TotalReadoutTime](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix/issues/98), Slice Orientation and [Transfer Syntax](https://www.nitrc.org/plugins/mwiki/index.php/dcm2nii:MainPage#Transfer_Syntaxes_and_Compressed_Images) that might disrupt conversion (specific features are described in the text files). The current code validates [dcm2niix](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix), but could be easily adapted for other tools.

This validator script converts DICOM images in the "In" folders and saves the results in the "Out" folder. It then reports any differences between the "Out" folder and the "Ref" folder of reference files. It will report ANY differences between these files. This allows the script to check both [NIfTI](https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/) and [BIDS](http://bids.neuroimaging.io) format files. Note that just because there is a difference does not mean a conversion is incorrect. For example, the BIDS file contains the version of dcm2niix used for conversion, and one expects this to change with new versions. What this script does is report ALL changes, and the user can determine if they reflect regressions. For example, here is an example of a report where a different compiler (GCC vs CLANG) was used to generate dcm2niix:

```
--- /Users/rorden/dcm_qa/Out/sag_int_36sl_21.json	2017-06-21 12:36:48.000000000 -0400
+++ /Users/rorden/dcm_qa/Ref/sag_int_36sl_21.json	2017-06-21 09:11:20.000000000 -0400
@@ -26,5 +26,5 @@
 	"TrueEchoSpacing": 0.000559996,
 	"PhaseEncodingDirection": "i-",
 	"ConversionSoftware": "dcm2niix",
-	"ConversionSoftwareVersion": "v1.0.20170621 GCC6.1.0"
+	"ConversionSoftwareVersion": "v1.0.20170621 Clang7.3.0"
 }
```

## License

This software and images are open source and were acquired by Chris Rorden. The the code is covered by the [2-clause BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause) and released in June 2017.

## Versions

21-June-2017
 - Initial public release

## Running

Edit the first few lines of the `batch.sh` script so that `basedir` reports the location of the `dcm_qa` folder on your computer and `exenam` reports the location of dcm2niix. Next, make sure the script is executable (`chmod +x batch.sh`). Then run the script.

Commit message:

assume dcm2niix is in path and basedir is path of script

README.md, after:


## About

dcm_qa is a simple DICOM to NIfTI validator script and dataset. The DICOM format is the popular standard for medical images, [but it is very complicated](https://github.com/jonclayden/divest), so most scientific tools only support the simpler [NIfTI](https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/) format. Therefore, scientists rely on accurate conversion of DICOM images to NIfTI. The provided DICOM dataset includes images that exhibit various features such as variation in [TotalReadoutTime](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix/issues/98), Slice Orientation and [Transfer Syntax](https://www.nitrc.org/plugins/mwiki/index.php/dcm2nii:MainPage#Transfer_Syntaxes_and_Compressed_Images) that might disrupt conversion (specific features are described in the text files). The current code validates [dcm2niix](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix), but could be easily adapted for other tools.

This validator script converts DICOM images in the "In" folders and saves the results in the "Out" folder. It then reports any differences between the "Out" folder and the "Ref" folder of reference files. It will report ANY differences between these files. This allows the script to check both [NIfTI](https://brainder.org/2012/09/23/the-nifti-file-format/) and [BIDS](http://bids.neuroimaging.io) format files. Note that just because there is a difference does not mean a conversion is incorrect. For example, the BIDS file contains the version of dcm2niix used for conversion, and one expects this to change with new versions. What this script does is report ALL changes, and the user can determine if they reflect regressions. For example, here is an example of a report where a different compiler (GCC vs CLANG) was used to generate dcm2niix:

```
--- /Users/rorden/dcm_qa/Out/sag_int_36sl_21.json	2017-06-21 12:36:48.000000000 -0400
+++ /Users/rorden/dcm_qa/Ref/sag_int_36sl_21.json	2017-06-21 09:11:20.000000000 -0400
@@ -26,5 +26,5 @@
 	"TrueEchoSpacing": 0.000559996,
 	"PhaseEncodingDirection": "i-",
 	"ConversionSoftware": "dcm2niix",
-	"ConversionSoftwareVersion": "v1.0.20170621 GCC6.1.0"
+	"ConversionSoftwareVersion": "v1.0.20170621 Clang7.3.0"
 }
```

## License

This software and images are open source and were acquired by Chris Rorden. The the code is covered by the [2-clause BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-2-Clause) and released in June 2017.

## Versions

21-June-2017
 - Initial public release

## Running

Assuming that the executable dcm2niix is in your path, you should be able to simply run the script `batch.sh` from the terminal.

If you have problems you can edit the first few lines of the `batch.sh` script so that `basedir` reports the explicit location of the `dcm_qa` folder (by default this is assumed to be the folder containing the script) on your computer and `exenam` reports the explicit location of dcm2niix (by default it is assumed to be in your path). Also, make sure the script is executable (`chmod +x batch.sh`). Then run the script.
